Hi,

you are reading the README of the 'KTurtle' project that is initiated
and maintained by Cies Breijs (cies-AT-showroommama-DOT-nl). In this
README I will tell you how to get KTurtle running on your computer.



1. Requirements
You need to have KDE 3.2 or higher. I don't know if it will work with different
KDE versions since I did not test it. If it does not work please see
the Questions section below.



2. Compiling
The simplest way to compile this package is:

  1) `cd' to the directory containing the package's source code and type
     `./configure --prefix=<PATH>' to configure the package for your
     system.
     
     Make sure to replace <PATH> by the path wher your KDE apps are
     installed. This is mostly '/usr', but sometimes (for SuSE) '/opt/kde'.
     If you dont know what to do try: `./configure --prefix=/usr'. If you don't give a --prefix the default path /usr/local will be used, resulting that KTurtle will no be with your other apps, and may not run smoothly.

     Running `configure' takes a while.  While running, it prints some
     messages telling which features it is checking for. If the
     configure script exits with an error it will probably hint you
     what it needs in order to succeed.

  2) Type `make' to compile the package.
     
     'make' also takes a while, and it also has the possibility to exit
     with errors. Although the errors messages 'make' produces are mostly
     not as clear as the error messages from 'configure', they are a hint
     to what went wrong. Please see the Questions section below if you
     dont know what to do with these messages.

If it succeeded a binary named 'kturtle' is made and can be find in the
'src' directory within the directory containing the package's source
code.

Before you can run KTurtle you need to install it.

     
     
3. Installing     
NOTE: you often need 'root' privilliges to do the following! 

  1) Type `make install' to install the programs and any data files and
     documentation.

  2) You can remove the program binaries and object files from the
     source code directory by typing `make clean'. 
     
If you want to uninstall KTurtle you should type 'make uninstall' when
in the source code directory.

Please note that 'make install' will install KTurtle to the path that is provided to the './configure' command with the '--prefix' flag! 


4. Running
Under normal circumstances should be able to run KTurtle from the
commandline by typing 'kturtle'.

If it does not work please go to the source code directory of KTurtle
and type:

     cd src
     ./kturlte

If this does not work please follow instuction form the Question section.



5. Questions
Check out the FAQ in the source code directory of KTurtle to see if your
question has allready been asked.

You can also mail questions to the mail address you find in the
beginning of this document. Or visit the KTurtle website:
http://kturlte.sf.net ,   or    http://edu.kde.org/kturtle
and post it in the forum.



Thanks for reading!

Cies.





